add documentation and change log entry for the feature toggle UI (#4447)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/standard-tenant/changing-settings-bundle/feature-toggles.md

---
title: Feature toggles
layout: redirect
sector:
  - platform_administration
weight: 60
---

> Using the **Feature toggles** functionality, you enable or disable specific preview features in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Feature toggles** functionality enables or disables specific preview features in the UI.
```

> You get early access to new features before they are generally available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This provides early access to new features before they are generally available.
```

> You can also temporarily disable a feature that is generally available when you experience an issue with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, you can temporarily disable a feature that is generally available when you experience an issue with it.
```

> Any feedback about these features is important. Provide it through your support channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your feedback on these features is very valuable to us. Please submit your thoughts via the support portal.
```

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}

- To view the **Feature toggles** page: No specific permissions.

> - To update the state of a feature toggle: ADMIN permission for the permission type "Tenant management"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To update the state of a feature toggle: ADMIN permission for the permission type "Tenant management".
```

{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

> Click **Feature toggles** in the **Settings** menu in the navigator to open the feature toggle view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Feature toggles** in the **Settings** menu in the navigator to open the **Feature toggles** page.
```

> The state of a feature toggle depends on the **Phase** of the feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Feature toggles** page displays the following columns:

- **Name**: The display name of the feature. Optional.
- **Description**: A brief explanation of what the feature does. Optional.
- **Key**: The unique identifier for the feature toggle.
- **Phase**: The current phase of the feature, either "Generally available" or "Public Preview".
- **Status**: The current state of the feature toggle, either "Enabled" or "Disabled". The state of a feature toggle depends on the phase of the feature. Before a feature is generally available, it is disabled by default. You must opt in to enable it. When a feature is generally available, it is enabled by default. You must opt out to disable it.
- **Strategy**: Indicates if the state of a feature toggle has been customized. Once you customize a feature toggle, it no longer changes its state according to the phase. To return to the default behavior, click the reset button in the customized row. 
```

> Before a feature is generally available, it is disabled by default. You must opt in to enable it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> When a feature is generally available, it is enabled by default. You must opt out to disable it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The **Strategy** column indicates if the state of a feature toggle has been customized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Once you customize a feature toggle, it no longer changes its state according to the **Phase**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To return to the default behavior, click the reset button in the customized row. This resets the feature toggle so that the **Status** again depends on the feature **Phase**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### To toggle a feature {#to-toggle-a-feature}

1. Identify the row of the feature toggle that you want to change in the list.
2. Click the toggle switch in the **Status** column to change the state of the feature toggle.

### To manage features of subtenants {#to-manage-features-of-subtenants}

> Users on the `management` tenant can also manage the feature toggles of subtenants on the environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users on the {{< management-tenant >}} can also manage the feature toggles of subtenants on the environment.
```

> For these users there is an additional **Feature toggles** tab in the detail view of a subtenant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< management-tenant >}} see an additional **Feature toggles** tab in the detail view of a subtenant.
```

> This functionality is not available on enterprise tenants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality is not available on {{< enterprise-tenant >}}s.
```
